---
layout: post
title: "Service to the World Odyssey Reflection"
author: Fin Lockert
categories: misc
---

As stated in my second client meeting post, I took on a project with two others, Simon and Kate, to make a website to search for plants with their scientific names for our client, Dr. Ann Willyard, called ISeeGreen (ISG). This was undoubtedly the biggest project I have ever worked on, bigger than all of my previous computer science final projects (a board game and tower defense game). Not only was it the biggest preject I've worked on, it was all in new coding languages I have only learned this semeste, coding languages that I now feel quite confident in. Additionally, it was the only large project I have ever taken on in a group, all of my previous projecs were both started and completed entirely on my own.

The most important skill we all seemed to have developed over the course of the ISG project was our ability to clearly communicate with each other. We ran into many roadbumps on our journey to completing this website, mainly coding errors and bugs. At the beginning of our work together, telling each other clearly about what was happening was super difficlult and slowed our progress down quite a bit. However, as time went on, suddenly all our communications were easy to understand, which made it easier to delegate work and get the bugs out of our code quickly and efficiently. In the future, as I continue on coding, this experience will help me to communicate with my team so that when we hit a snag we won't get stuck.

While I may have got an idea as to how websites should look through the course, there was nothing I could have been taught that would come close to what I learned in actually making a website. I found my appreciation for web-designers growing by the day, and got a brand new love of streamlined and uncomplicated websites. I believe our project was special because to me, it feels like our project was the only one with a main focus in education. Many educational websites are either boring to look at or too complicated for a new learner to understand, and our goal was to make our website both pretty and easy to understand. Making a website like this how we did feels especially important, since what we have started will make education more accessible.

While I went in to this specific project knowing very little about botany, and have now passed by it still with very little knowledge of botany, what I did take away was that some things which are easy to ignore for some are extremely important to others. The thing about that is that for someone to become invested in a certain thing, they need to have the access to learn about that thing. I spent some time trying to learn specific things over the course of this project, like trying to find out what exactly makes up a plant's scientific name, which took me almost half an hour to find anything about. If this were a world where I wanted to become someone who did something with knowledge of botany, it would be incredibly difficult for me unless I was willing to shell out lots of money fo r long and difficult to read books.

I don't think my values and beliefs have changed at all throught the course of this project. If anything, my beliefs only got stronger with the confirmation of what I always thought, that information should be accessible no matter how specialized it is. While authors of textbooks are amazing, books are quite expensive in and of themselves which places a barrier between the student and the subject. However, if someone who wanted to learn something went to a public library, they may be able to read this book for free. However, there's also the case of using complicated language that is anything but beginner friendly. Personally, I believe that the future of accessible learning will be through the internet, whether on a personal device or apublic computer at the library, and this project has only made me double down on that.

In the end, what this means is that through the ISG project, not only did I improve myself and my repertoire of knowledge, I also strengthened my beliefs. I have not only learned multiple new coding languages and how to properly communicate to team members, but I have also found something that lights a fire under me. Even if what I thought stayed the same throughout the project, that doesn't mean the project didn't influence me. I'm glad with the way that ISG and my team have helped me strengthen my abilities and beliefs.